in this video we'll tell you about a
couple of special matrix operations
called the matrix inverse and the matrix
transpose operation that's not by
talking about matrix inverse and as
usual we'll start by thinking about how
relates to real numbers in the last
video I said that the number one plays a
row of sort of the identity right in the
space of real numbers because one times
anything is equal to itself it turns out
the row numbers have this property that
every number have and each number has an
inverse for example given the number
three there exists some number which
happens to be three inverse so that that
number of times to me gives you back the
identity element one right and so you
know three inverse of course this is
just one third right and given some
other number maybe 12 there's some
number which is the inverse of 12
written as 12 to the minus 1 or really
this is just 1 12 so that when you
multiply these two things together right
the product is equal to the identity
element 1 again now it turns out that in
the space of real numbers not everything
has an inverse for example the number 0
does not have an inverse right because
years so 0 inverse is 1 over 0 that's
that's undefined right this 1 over 0 is
it's not it's not well-defined and what
we want to do in the rest of the slide
is figure out what does it mean to you
know compute the inverse of a matrix
here's the idea um if a is an M by M
matrix and if has an inverse I'll say a
little bit more about that later then
the inverse is going to be written a to
the minus 1 and a time since inverse a
to the minus 1 is going to equal to a
inverse times a is going to give us back
the identity matrix okay only matrices
that are M by M for some value of M have
so it matrixes M by M this is also
called a square matrix and it's called
square because the number of rows is
equal to the number of columns right and
it turns out only square matrices have
inverses so a is a square matrix is n by
M and if it is inverse then it satisfies
this equation over here let's look at
the concrete example so let's say I have
a matrix 3 4 2 16 so this is a 2 by 2
matrix so it's a square matrix and so
this matrix could have an inverse and it
turns out that I happen to know the
inverse of this matrix is 0.4 minus 0.1
minus 0.05 0.075 and if I take this
matrix and multiply these together it
turns out what I get is the 2 by 2
identity matrix I can write this as 5 2
by 2 okay and so on the slide you know
this matrix is the matrix a and this
matrix the matrix a inverse and it turns
out that here I've computed a times a
inverse it turns out if you compute 8
inverse times a you also get back the
identity matrix so how did I find this
inverse so how did I come up with this
inverse over here it turns out that
sometimes you can compute inverses by
hand but almost no one does that these
days and it turns out there's very good
numerical software for taking a matrix
and computing is inference so again this
is one of those things where their loss
of open source libraries that you can
link to from any of the popular
programming languages to compute
inverses of matrices let me show you a
quick example how I actually computed
this inverse and what I did was I used
software called octave so let me bring
that up we'll see a lot more about
octave later so but let me just quickly
show you an example and I set my eight
matrix a
to be equal that matrix on the Left Type
3 4 to 16 so that's my matrix a right as
this matrix 3 4 to 16 that I have down
here on the left and the software lets
me computes the inverse of a very easily
and it's like P inva a equals this and
so this is right this matrix here 0.4
minus 0.1 and so on this has given me a
numerical solution towards the inverse
of a second let me just write inverse of
a equals P of a so inverse available
that I can now just verify that a times
a inverse the identity is inside a times
inverse of a and the result of that is
this matrix and this is one one on the
diagonal and you know essentially what
10 to the minus 17 10 to the minus 16 so
up to numerical precision up to a load
of the round off error that my computer
had in multiplying these two matrices so
absolutely right around are these are
these numbers after diagonals are
essentially zero and so eight times the
inverse is essentially the identity
matrix and also verify inverse of a
times a there's also is also equal to
the identity with ones of diagonals and
you know values essentially zero except
for a little bit of round off ever on
the off diagonals in my definition of
the inverse of a matrix I had this
caveat right first it must always be a
square matrix and I had this caveat so
if a has an inverse exactly what
matrices have an inverse is beyond the
scope of this linear algebra review but
one intuition you might take away is
that just as this number 0 doesn't have
an inverse it turns out that if a is say
the matrix of all zeros then this matrix
a also does not have an inverse because
you know there's no matrix sorry there's
no a inverse matrix so that this matrix
times some other matrix would give you
the identity matrix of this matrix of
all zeros and there are few other
matrices were probably similar to this
that also don't have an inverse
but it turns out that I don't in this
review I don't want to go too deeply
into what it means for a matrix to have
an inverse but it turns out that for all
machine learning applications this
shouldn't be an issue or more precisely
for the learning algorithms where this
may be an issue may be whether or not an
inverse appears I'll tell you when we
get to those learning algorithms just
what it means for an algorithm to have
or not have an inversion and how to fix
it in case we end up working with
matrices that don't have inverses but
the intuition if you want is that you
can think of matrices as not having an
inverse if there's somehow too close to
0 in some sense and to give just to wrap
up the terminology our matrix that don't
have an inverse are sometimes called the
singular matrix or degenerate matrix and
so you know this matrix over here is an
example the 0 0 0 matrix as an example
of a matrix as singular or matrix as
degenerate finally the last special
matrix operation I want to tell you
about is d matrix transpose so suppose
that matrix a if I compute the transpose
of a that's what I get here on the right
this is a transpose which is written a
superscript T and the way you compute
the transpose of a matrix is as follows
to get a transpose I'm going to first
take the first row of a 1 to 0 that
becomes this first column of the
transpose and then I'm going to take the
second row of a 3 5 9 and that becomes
the second column of the matrix a
transpose and another way of thinking
about how to compute the transpose is is
as if you're taking this sort of 45
degree you know axis and you're
mirroring or you are flipping the matrix
along that 45 degree axis okay so here's
the more formal definition of a matrix
transpose let's say a is an M by n
matrix and let's let B equal a transpose
B equals a transpose like so then B is
going to be an N by M matrix with the
dimensions reversed so here we have a 2
by 3 matrix and so the transpose becomes
a 3 by 2 matrix and moreover bij is
equal to AJ I so the IJ element of this
matrix being is going to be the ji
element of that earlier matrix a so for
example b12 is going to be equal to look
in this nephews be b12 0 equal to this
element 3 right first row second column
and that's equal to this which is a 2 1
second row first column right and well
which is equal to 2 and it's not an
example B 3 2 right that's B 3 2 who is
this element 9 and that's equal to a 2 3
which is this element up here nine and
so that wraps up the definition of what
it means to take the transpose of a
matrix and in fact that concludes our
linear algebra review so by now
hopefully you know how to add and
subtract matrices as well as multiply
them and you also know how what are the
definitions of the inverses and
transposes of a matrix and these are the
main operations you need in linear
algebra for this course in case this is
the first time you're seeing this
material I know this was this was a lot
of linear algebra material all presented
very quickly and this is a lot absol but
if you but there's no need to memorize
all the definitions we just went through
and if you download a copy of either
these slides or of the lecture notes
from the website and from the website
from the course website and use either
the slides and lecture notes as a
reference then you can always refer back
to the definitions to figure out you
know what are these multiplication
transpose and so on definitions and the
lecture notes on the course website also
has pointers to additional resources on
linear algebra we
you can use to learn more about linear
algebra by yourself and and mix what
these new tools will be able in the next
few videos to develop more powerful
forms of linear regression they can view
with a lot more detail a lot more
features and a lot more training
examples and later on after the new
regression will actually continue using
these linear algebra tools to derive
more powerful than learning algorithms
as well